Hello and welcome to the Harvest Baptist Church sermon podcast.
We are honored that you would click on this and listen to God's word preached by one of our elders.
At the same time, we strongly affirm the biblical mandate for Christians to be faithfully active and in-person part of their local church.
This sermon cannot and will not replace what a local church can provide to the life of a Christian.
That being said,
We hope that this sermon challenges and encourages you in your faith and that it builds upon the faithful ministry of your local church.
We hope that you enjoy.
God bless.
If you'll take your Bible with me and turn to Exodus chapter 13.
Before we get started, I want to say a few quick words.
One, Nate, thank you, Ms. Amy, thank you, and Mr.
Chefs, thank you for all your work on our hymnal.
We are very excited to have that in our hand after over a year of work on that one project.
Thank you very much as a church.
We're very thankful for your labor of love to help us worship the Lord.
Also, just quick announcement by way of teaching and schedules and that sort of thing.
On Sunday mornings, Pastor Alex just began a study on the book of Habakkuk.
So you won't be missing much if you join us next week.
That's very exciting.
And he's also on Wednesday night, Pastor Alex had been working on getting us started kind of around the book of Revelation.
And come this Wednesday night, I will be leading a eight week study going
verse by verse through Revelation.
We won't make it all the way to the end, but we'll make it as far as we can in eight weeks.
I want to let you know that as well.
All that to be said, and we're starting really a part two in Exodus as we get ready to start here in Exodus chapter 13.
If coming out of Egypt and slavery was part one, where now God is beginning a new section in Exodus, Moses writing where God's people are moving
from Egypt into the promised land, of course, going across the Red Sea and into the wilderness.
That is the next section that we move into.
And of course, we want to be reminded that 1 Corinthians 10, Paul tells us these things are written down for our instructions on whom the end of the ages have come.
This is written down
for us.
And this all God's scripture, of course, being God's breath is profitable for correction and teaching and training and righteousness.
So we want to heed our words to this as we have the other parts of this book.
Now, I find it fitting that we come to this part, it being really the first sermon of the new year.
Everybody seems to somewhat be interested in New Year's resolutions.
And I don't know about you, but my New Year's resolutions usually make it
to the end of the first week.
But what I really need is self-control.
And that's really what I think we're getting at today.
We don't have chippy titles or clips for sermons, but if there was a title for one somewhere down the line, you could say the secret to self-control this morning.
That's not the title because we don't do that.
I don't do that.
But somewhere in there, that's it.
But that's not really
really what it's all about.
That's part of this sermon, but really what's at stake here in the Christian life and in self-control is much more than just keeping a New Year's resolution.
What is at stake is declaring the nature and character of God to a lost and dying world.
You see, the real problems of our day, the vices of our day, homosexuality, transgenderism, all of those pornography, the main issues of our day at the bedrock issue of those problems is
a hatred for the image of God, a hatred for who God is and how God has created man in his image.
And so we as a church are supposed to be declaring to the world who God is and how he has saved us and what he's done for us, but who God is.
And for that to be done, we have to do that with our words.
We also have to do that with our life.
And God has called his people, he saved his people, but he's also doing much more than just saving them.
That is the edge, that is the beginning of God's work in his people.
And so I want us to see that today.
And really what we're looking at, there's three main things beginning in Exodus 13.
Three main, you call them rituals, ceremonies that God is implementing into the calendar that's going to become part of Israel's life.
three main things that are going to characterize what we're going to talk about this morning.
We're going to move to the New Testament.
We're going to see them there too.
Here they are.
First is Passover.
Okay.
That speaks of redemption.
The ransom of God Passover speaks of God's redemption and salvation for his people.
Next is the Feast of Unleavened Bread.
Okay.
The Feast of Unleavened Bread.
That speaks to God, God calling us to self control.
God calling us to live without leaven a holy life.
Okay.
And then constant creation and then third is Lordship.
And that is the concentration of the firstborn.
We're going to see that right off the bat.
God's called the firstborn in Israel, every animal, every child to be given to him.
So those are three things we're going to look at redemption, Lordship,
Okay, in holiness, okay, and so how do we get there?
And we wanna get to self-control right here the first year.
I need self-control, right?
How do we get there?
There's things that you have to understand as a Christian and have deep in your heart and in your mind if you're gonna have any self-control.
Just trying to have wheeled self-control is not gonna work to live the Christian life.
You have to understand redemption and you have to understand lordship, okay?
So let's get started there in Exodus chapter 13.
If you'll stand with me for the reading of God's word,
And the Lord said to Moses, concentrate to me all the firstborn, whatever is the first to open the womb among the people of Israel, both of man and of beast is mine.
So right off the bat, we see concentration, right?
Concentrate the firstborn to me, whether animal or human, whatever first come out of the womb is mine, okay?
And whatever is first born, verse three, then Moses said to the people,
Remember this day in which you came out from Egypt out of the house of slavery.
For by a strong hand, the Lord brought you out of this place.
All of this is done in remembrance.
You contemplate in remembrance.
So there's, we want to keep that in mind.
Remembrance.
Then we're going to see the third thing right here.
No leaven bread shall be eaten.
Okay.
There's that third principle.
Verse four, today in the month of Abib, you are going out.
When the Lord brings you into the land of the Canaanites, the Hittites, the Amorites, the Hivites, and the Jebusites, which he swore to your fathers to give you a land flowing with milk and honey, you shall keep this service in this month.
Seven days you shall eat unleavened bread.
On the seventh day, there shall be a feast to the Lord.
Mark that down, that word feast.
This is a feast.
Verse seven.
Unleavened bread shall be eaten for seven days.
No leaven shall be seen within you and no leaven shall be with you in all your territory.
You shall tell your son on that day.
It is because of what the Lord did for me when I came out of Egypt.
It shall be a sign on your hand and memorial between your eyes that the law of the Lord may be in your mouth.
For with a strong hand, the Lord has brought you out of Egypt.
See that repeated.
You shall therefore keep his statue as it appointment appointed time from year to year.
Let us pray.
Father, thank you for the giving and the reading and the honoring of your word.
Use your word this morning to edify your people, to glorify your name and all the world.
We ask it in Christ's name and all God's people said amen.
You may be seated.
So we want to make our way through chapter 13.
The first part of it will get to verse 17.
Then we'll go to the New Testament to see these principles we want to point out this morning.
Okay, so let's start verse one of chapter 13.
The Lord said to Moses, now you're gonna notice in verse 13, Moses is gonna speak to the people, but first the Lord speaks to Moses.
Concentrate to me, all the firstborn, whatever is the first to open the womb among the people of Israel, both of man is beast is mind.
Now here's the first thing I wanna point out about Lordship this morning.
Redemption creates ownership.
Why did God
purchase Israel.
He purchased Israel because so he could own them so that they would be his redemption.
With redemption comes ownership.
Christ had purchased them.
He ransomed them.
We're gonna talk about that here in a minute.
He paid a price, right?
The Lamb of God.
There was a price paid.
He ransomed them.
They are his people.
Okay?
So he has owned them.
And so Lordship is key here in this passage.
Now we moved to verse three.
Of course, you see that among Israel.
In verse three, Moses then turns to the people.
Remember this day when you came out from Egypt out of the house of slavery.
Go show where Israel was kept, where the slaves were.
The commentary said there was walls around it, almost as a prison.
And so you will see Egypt from here on out in the Old Testament referred to as the house of slavery.
For it's a strong hand the Lord brought you out of this place, okay?
So the Lord had saved you.
The Christian life is about remembrance, okay?
Everything we do in the Christian life is in remembrance of salvation.
When we get the 10 commandments, when we get the law, what's the first part?
Remember it's God who brought you out of Egypt, here's the law, right?
It doesn't just start with,
Law number one, right?
That shall have no other gods.
No, it starts with remember God has saved you out of Egypt.
Everything in the Christian life is done out of redemption.
It's done out of salvation.
It's done out of deliverance.
It's done out of remembrance.
Anything in the Christian life, any kind of service that's not done with that in our heart and in our mind is not biblical obedience.
Okay.
So that is, that is what we have to remember redemption.
And that's the main part here.
Okay.
And then he goes right into it.
No leaven shall be eating it.
Look how many times we see leaven here.
Today is the month of Abib.
You're going out.
When the Lord brings you into the land of the Canaanites, the Hittites, the Amorites, the Hivites, the Jebusites, which he swore to your father to give you a land flowing with milk and honey.
You shall keep this service in the month.
Seven days, okay?
The fees, the seven days you're fasting from leaven.
You shall eat.
unleavened bread on the seventh day.
There shall be a feast to the Lord unleavened bread shall be eaten for seven days.
So note here about the second principle.
Redemption creates ownership.
Redemption also creates pilgrims.
Redemption creates pilgrims.
Okay.
So note pastor Nate sermon last week.
When he saved them, they were to eat the Lord's supper.
How are they to eat it with a staff in their hand and shoes on their feet?
They were leaving out because redemption, when God saves his people, he creates for them a new life.
Okay.
There's a new identity when you're saved.
Um, and, and so this is important for all the plagues as we're going through the plagues, it seemed like they were never going to get to leave Egypt.
Like these plagues weren't working.
Pharaoh was going back and what would Pharaoh say?
Pharaoh say, all right, you can go change his mind.
Nope.
He'd harden his heart.
God would harden his heart.
Right.
And so it seems like they're never going to get out of Egypt.
But when that 10th plague comes, when the blood of the lamb was spilled, right?
And they went under the blood that when they went out under the blood, when that 10th plague hit, they were never going to stay in Egypt.
There was no way they could stay there.
OK, they were coming out.
God created a nation in a night.
I mean, it was they were coming out.
They were now a people of God.
They were coming out.
And so here's the principle one play with that redemption creates
Pilgrims.
Okay.
And now did you notice here in verse five, how the leaven and the land is connected?
This feast of leaven of unleavened bread.
So they remember his pastor Nate so gladly put it in our heads last week.
They had unleavened bread cause they didn't have time to let it rise.
All right.
It was a meal on the go.
It was fast food.
There was a mill on the go.
And so they didn't have time to let it rise.
It was remembering that God brought them out of Egypt is in remembrance.
Now this feast is going to be tied to the land.
You see that there?
Remember the Abrahamic covenant.
The Abrahamic covenant was what to Abraham?
It was a promise to Abraham from God of land and seed, of land and seed, right?
I will give you a land that I will show you.
And here this is connected to the land.
I'm going to bring you a land, but for you to keep the land, you're going to have to keep the feast of unleavened bread.
And of course, leaven's gonna grow in the bottom.
It means growth, all right, leaven does, but people in the Bible come to understand the symbol of sin, right?
It was symbolic of that.
We're gonna see that in the New Testament.
They were had to be a holy people, right?
The Ten Commandments, obey your father and mother.
So it will go well for you in the land, right?
If you're gonna have the land, you're gonna have to obey your father and mother.
If it's gonna go well for you in the land, if you're gonna live long days, there's certain ways you need to live, right?
Proverbs tells us that sin is a reproach to a people, okay?
Adam, all right?
Adam, if you're gonna keep the garden, you're gonna have to show some restraint.
You're gonna have to have self-control.
Adam, you can eat, you and Eve can eat anything in the garden, but that one tree you're gonna have to restrain from, okay?
You're not gonna be able to eat it, okay?
You know, Cain, this land is yours.
Abel, this land is yours, right?
You just need to guard it and guard one another.
It's your land.
Israel, you're going into the promised land.
I'm giving you the land, but if you're going to keep the land, you're going to have to keep this feast of unleavened bread.
So people, for any nation that principle, a nation's not going to make it if they don't have constraint from sin.
If you have a nation who wants to kill their children and you have a government that allows them to kill their children through abortion, you're not going to have a nation that lasts for long.
You're going to have a nation that's got a timetable at that point because
people who don't constrict from sin will crumble.
God will give them over to their ways and they will crumble.
So sin is a reproach to any people.
So if they're going to keep the land that God's going to give them, they're going to have to keep this feast of unleavened bread.
They're going to have to remember that they are pilgrims.
Okay, so they're going to keep the land.
So
So we understand these principles.
Now they do this in Lordship.
So God has redeemed them, He owns them, they are His people and now they're gonna have to have constraint.
Once at this feast they're gonna have to have restraint.
Now why is this?
What is supposed to happen in verse eight?
You shall tell your son on that day, it's because of what the Lord did for me when I came out of Egypt.
This shall be a sign on your hand, a memorial between your eyes.
The law of the Lord may be
in your mouth.
So when your son asks you, Hey dad, this week, why are we not eating 11?
Where's the sourdough?
Where's all the good stuff this week?
This is to remember that we're pilgrims.
This is to remember that God brought us out of Egypt, that we are His.
This is, we're remembering His salvation, right?
When you're, when you're, when your kids see you and you're tired, then what, dad, why, why, why don't we tie?
Right?
Because God's given us everything.
He saved us.
Right?
Dad, why did that?
What happened when that person got baptized?
Right?
Well, that's the gospel.
Jesus died, buried and rose again, and we identify with him through faith.
Right?
Why do we go to that church?
All when kids ask what you need to pattern parents, we need to pattern our life in such a way grandparents, right?
All of us need to pattern our life in such a way that people will say, why do you do that on the Lord's day?
Why is it on the Lord's day on Sunday that you go to church that that's a discipline?
Why?
Well, that's just because that's where I live.
That's how I grew up.
No, that's not the right answer.
You do it because Christ rose from the dead on Sunday and it is the Lord's day is the Lord's Sabbath.
You do it because he saved you.
You do it because you love him because he first loved you, right?
We have to look for ways and we need to remember.
Parents are the most important people for us to share the gospel with is our children.
And we need to be strategizing ways to make sure that we're sharing the gospel with them, not just when we sit down and have family worship, but when they rise up, when we go by the way, when they sit down at night, when they ask questions, right?
You need to, hey, ask questions, kids of your parents, right?
Hey, kids, if you're listening right now, tune in for a minute, ask all the questions of your parents.
Why do they do what they do?
Ask them that.
All right, ask them questions.
And that's how the Lord has designed this, that their life would be patterned in such a way that the parents will be able to share the gospel.
So now in verse 11, the Lord bring you into the land of Canaan.
He swore to your fathers, he shall give it to you first.
Well, you shall set apart to the Lord.
The first, all the first opens the womb.
All the firstborn of your animals that are males shall be to the Lord.
Every firstborn of a donkey, you shall redeem
with a lamb or it will not redeem it.
If you do not, if you, if you will not redeem it, you shall break its neck.
Every firstborn of a man among your sons, you shall redeem.
And when time has come to your son, ask you, what does this mean?
You say to him, by strong hand, the Lord brought us out of Egypt, the house of slavery.
When Pharaoh stubbornly refused to let us go,
the Lord killed all the firstborn in the land of Egypt, both the firstborn of man and the firstborn of animals.
Therefore I sacrificed to the Lord all the males that the first opened the womb, but all the firstborn of my sons I redeemed.
It shall be a mark on your hand on your front list between your eyes for a strong hand.
The Lord brought us out of Egypt.
So this is somewhat odd.
This, this constant creation.
So you have the Passover, right?
Uh, feast.
And then you have
directly following that in the next seven days.
Why seven days of unleavened bread?
Seven days because when God's people left Egypt, when the lamb died, it was seven days till they got to the Red Sea.
So some commentators believe that's why it was seven days long.
Not real sure, but that could be a possibility.
But it was seven days, but also in the same timeframe, there's this concentration, this sacrifice of the firstborn.
Now notice, to understand this point, Moses gives us the example of a donkey.
of a donkey.
Now, animals were put into two categories in the law.
You had the clean animals and the unclean animals.
The clean animals, you could sacrifice to the Lord.
The unclean animals, you could not.
And so because God redeemed the firstborn in Israel, right?
The lamb was slain and the firstborn was saved.
If the blood wasn't on the doorpost of the lamb, God, the death angel went in and the firstborn was
killed, right?
It was sacrificed.
So God saved it by the lamb.
He's saying the firstborn's mind.
So your firstborn male children are mind, they're to be redeemed.
And to understand that, it looks like how you would do a donkey, okay?
So a donkey could not be sacrificed to the Lord.
It was unclean, okay?
So, but the donkey had to, if you weren't going to give it to the Lord, you had to break its neck.
It either had to be given to the Lord or you break its neck.
So now he's comparing that to first
born male children.
So what is he saying about?
You make the comparison.
Okay.
I'll let you do that.
Um, but here's God either, um, in the law, numbers 18, your firstborn children belong to the Lord.
They are to guard his temple.
They were to guard his work, his way.
Okay.
They were to work for the Lord, serve the Lord.
And if you, but you could redeem them.
You could buy them back five shekels and numbers.
You could buy them back.
You could
ransom them.
Okay.
Now in our text here, the word redeem, you see in verse 13, every firstborn of a donkey shall be redeemed.
That same word is used over and over again here.
But the true Hebrew word is the word ransom.
It's padah.
The root word is padah.
Redeem is Gael.
Now I want to make this distinction for us to understand salvation a little clearer this morning.
Redemption in ancient Near East was a legal term.
It was a legal fact, and you need to get this in your heart and in your mind this morning.
Redemption, when redemption happens, a lot of times it had to do with buying a slave or redeeming a slave out of slavery.
It was legal that that slave was free.
Or adoption, when adoption was made and a parent redeemed a child, it was fact.
It was legal fact that that child had been redeemed.
They had been adopted.
So redemption is used a lot of times as a legal term.
Now ransom,
is the price that's paid for redemption to happen.
The five shekels, when a parent would give five shekels to the Lord to redeem their firstborn child, that was the redemption was happening, but the ransom was paid.
You need to understand that this morning for us to understand this.
And now the firstborn was important, of course.
So the firstborn was not just the first child like it is in our society, the firstborn
was the head of the family.
They carried more responsibility for the family.
They carried more honor, more responsibility.
And Adam is God's firstborn, but the firstborn of every family had to be redeemed as well.
So these three principles we see in the text, okay?
God is redeemed, God is ransom them, okay?
We need to remember for us to live and have constraint and to declare the person in nature of God, we must remember our redemption, remember the ransom
that's paid, okay?
For the chain of sin to be broken, it must be replaced with the chain of love, which comes from understanding redemption.
Now that being said, when redemption creates ownership.
If you are a Christian this morning, you are not your own.
1 Corinthians chapter six, this is important for us to understand.
Paul says you are not your own.
You've been bought with a price.
Acts chapter 20, Paul tells the Ephesians elders, take care of the church of God, which he purchased with his own blood.
Christian this morning, we need to understand if we are Christians, we've been redeemed.
We are not our own.
We are His, right?
And that's why He's going to say, put this on your hand.
Put this on your head.
Why?
Your eyes, Christian, for you to have self-controls more, you need to understand.
You've been redeemed.
Your eyes do not belong to you.
You need to look at only what God wants you to look at because they're not your eyes anymore.
Your hands need to hold to only what God wants you to hold and put your hands to because your hands are not your own.
You need to go only where the Lord wants you to go because your feet are not your own, right?
Your heart has no room for rival loves because your heart is not your own.
It is the Lord's.
He has purchased it.
He has paid a ransom, right?
His firstborn for you.
All right?
So we need to understand the Lordship.
And if that's true, you also know redemption is made pilgrims.
Right?
We need to remember this morning, right?
Only for us to live holy lives, we got to remember we are pilgrims.
We're not vagabonds looking for a home.
We're not strangers just away from home.
We are pilgrims headed home.
Are you with me?
We are pilgrims headed home this morning, okay?
And so for you to have self-control, you've got to know that the Lord loves you, cared for you, ransomed you, you wretched sinner.
He redeemed you.
Right.
And legally you are his.
He owns you and he's called you home.
He's called you to give you a land, right?
He's called you to a place.
So that being said, help me on it.
Let's understand this a little better.
Turn with me to Mark chapter 10, Mark chapter 10.
So, um, as a
English teacher, some standards, and Ms. Moore can help you understand this as well, some standards have changed in the state of Georgia in teaching.
And one of the things we have to teach now in high school language arts is something to do with paintings and art and that kind of thing.
Well, let me just tell you right up.
I'm not your guy for that, okay?
It's not me.
I try it.
I mean, well, I throw some Vince Van Gogh up here and I say, hey, you see, what do you think that means?
And I've looked and maybe somebody who is can help me give me some resources to understand.
What do you see?
It's a bowl of grapes.
What it looks like to me?
Yeah, that's what it looks like to me.
What's it mean?
I don't know.
It's a bowl of grapes.
I mean, what could it mean?
I don't know, but it means something, right?
And there's some kind of deeper meaning.
If you want to know what the bowl of grapes mean, we need to get Vince Van Gogh.
We need to ask him, right?
That's how I think about it.
I'm not going to some art gallery, so we can all hold hands and look at paintings and see what we think they mean.
That just doesn't sound like a fun time with me, right?
I teach the Raven.
I had no idea what the Raven really meant, right?
But Edgar Allen Poe wrote an essay describing what it meant.
Ah, now I got you.
You told me what it meant.
I understand.
All right.
Now, when we understand what happened at the cross, wouldn't it be great if we had a commentary from the one who died, right?
The one who was performing our salvation, the one who was dying for us.
Well, the good news is we got one.
And in Mark chapter 10, when his disciples
had been stubborn.
I mean, they just weren't listening.
Look at in Mark chapter 10, looking verse 32, and they were on the road going to Jerusalem.
This is right at the end of Christ's life the week before the passion.
Jesus was walking ahead of them and they were amazed.
Those who followed were afraid and taking the 12 again, he began to tell them what would happen to him again.
See that word, he done told them five or six times in the gospel of Mark,
I'm going to die.
This is going to happen.
Yeah, whatever.
They just keep going.
They didn't listen.
Okay.
He, they didn't listen to him.
And he says, um, it began to tell them what's going to happen saying we are going to Jerusalem.
The son of man will be delivered over to the chief priests and the scribes.
They will condemn him to death and deliver him over to the Gentiles and they will mock him and spit on him and flog him and kill him.
And after three days, he will rise.
Do you think they got it that time?
No, they begin to argue who's gonna sit on the right hand and sit on the left hand.
Jesus goes, you're not listening.
I'm about to die.
No, you're not.
Who's gonna get the right hand?
Jesus, who's gonna... You're not paying attention to me.
So Jesus uses a word that he randomly ever uses to help them understand what's gonna happen at the cross.
Look at verse 45.
Jesus said, for even the Son of man came not to be served
but to serve and to give his life as a ransom for many.
That word ransom has the root word to loose.
And when you think of ransom and I think of ransom, you think of a movie or show or a documentary where captives were taken, held hostage and the captors asked for money to be paid to let them go.
They asked for a ransom to be paid.
Well, that meant the same thing in ancient Near East.
It was the same way they understood it the same way.
Now,
There is the traditional ransom theory when it comes to the atonement.
The atonement of Christ is a multifaceted event and there's many ways and many things to understand and learn about the substitutionary death of Christ.
But one historic theological theory is the ransom theory.
And historically it goes like this.
God ransomed his people and paid a ransom, which was the death of Christ and the price was paid to who is paid to Satan.
He's the one who held Christ captive.
Now that is the traditional theory.
Now think about that for a minute.
Another theory of atonement is Christ is victor.
That is Christ conquered the grave.
He conquered his foes.
He conquered hell, sin, death and the grave.
He overcame where more than conquers through him.
And you can't miss that in scripture, right?
That's everywhere we look throughout the New Testament that Christ is victorious and we are victorious through him.
But think about the ransom theory for just a minute.
If the ransom,
is paid to Satan.
Who is really the victor?
If captors have hostages and they send a ransom note and ransom money is given to them and they let the hostages go, who won?
The captors, they won all the way to the bank when they put their money in the Swiss bank account offshore.
I don't know how it works, but I guess it does.
They won.
If God is ransoming his people and the ransom's being paid to Satan, who wins?
Who's victorious?
Satan is, but see, that's not what scripture teaches.
If we've learned anything throughout the book of Exodus, we've learned who the offended party is, right?
Pharaoh thinks he's the one being offended that these people are, the Israelite people are affecting him.
And when God's going to take them away, he feels like he's the one being offended.
But what we've come to learn is God is saying, they're my firstborn.
And you killed the children of Israel.
You're killing my people.
You enslaved my people.
And the only courtroom that matters, the heaven court, the injured party, the offended party was not Pharaoh.
It was God.
And my sin and your sin, that's also the case.
The highest offended party is God.
And the ransom must be paid to that person.
And what happens on the cross when Christ dies for us, the ransom is given is paid to the offended party.
It's paid to the Lord, right?
And so God ransoms us.
Christ ransoms us.
He pays his blood to ransom us and the ransom is paid to the father.
And we are now called the church of the firstborn because God gave his firstborn to ransom us.
Because what did he ransom from?
What did he save us from?
Was it from Satan?
Is that what we are saved from?
In some sense, we are saved from Satan and the chains that hold the fear of death.
That is some sense, but that's not the greatest sense of what we are saved from, what we are delivered from.
First Thessalonians chapter one, verse 10 makes it very clear.
Jesus, the firstborn from the dead, saved us from the wrath to come.
Who's wrath to come?
In Egypt, who's, who, who, what was the wrath?
Who, what was it?
Satan going around killing the firstborn, bringing just, no, it was God.
It was the wrath of God.
Salvation is God saves us from God.
Christ rampant rampant us and he delivers us from the wrath of God.
That is the biblical gospel.
That is redemption.
That's biblical redemption.
Now turn to Romans chapter six.
So we have to understand that first principle of ransom of redemption.
You've got to have that in your head and in your heart or you'll never make it to self control.
You'll never make it to live in
an unleavened life that you're called to live as a Christian, to live in the pilgrim life.
You'll never make it there if redemption is not in your heart.
You have to know it.
You have to understand it.
You have to grow in understanding of it.
And not just know intellectually, but to know intimately, to know to experience.
In Romans chapter six, Paul puts this together for us.
And just to back up just a little bit in verse 20 of chapter five, Paul says,
The law came into increase the trespass, but where sin increase grace abounded all the more when God's going to give the law on Sinai, it was one of the purposes of the law.
One of one of the purposes of the law was for man to understand their sinfulness and to understand they are more sinful than they can ever imagine.
Hey church, you need to get that this morning.
Your sin is worse than you can ever
put words to your sin is worse than you can ever imagine.
But here's the good news.
God's grace is much greater than your sin.
Where sin increased grace did increase all the more.
Right.
We're not saved by the merit of man, but by the mercy of God.
It's not the goodness of man.
We're not looking to our own goodness this morning.
We're looking to an alien righteousness.
We are looking to the grace and goodness and mercy of God.
What shall we say then?
We understand redemption.
You got that in your heart.
What shall we say then verse one of chapter six?
Are we to continue and sin that grace may abound by no means?
How can we who died to sin still live in it?
Paul's going to say in 1 Corinthians five.
In 1 Corinthians five, Paul's going to give us this proposition that redemption, one of the, I told you redemption brings ownership.
Redemption also brings church discipline.
In 1 Corinthians five, there's a man in the church who's sleeping with his father's wife.
And Paul says, because God has declared you unleavened, that is he has declared you, redeemed you, fact in law that you are justified.
You are declared righteous because of Christ.
Legally, you are just.
You are unleavened.
You are without sin.
He's declared that on your behalf.
Therefore, live an unleavened life.
You are unleavened, but you have to live unleavened.
Get all the leaven out.
Get it out, okay?
So you have to get it out.
You have to get the sin out of the church, okay?
And he says, keep the feast.
We as people, you know, Israel had one week a year, no leaven, right?
And we as people naturally like to have a box.
Do you like to have a to-do list?
I do.
My wife likes to give them to me because if not, things don't seem to get done a lot of times, okay?
Check the box off.
She'll say, you see it on the go.
Did you get that done?
Check it off.
Yes ma'am.
We want to say, okay, I did this.
We want to do that.
All right, oh, I had the feast of unleavened bread that week.
No, no, he says, keep the feast, get the leaven out, get it out of the church.
How come we can't have people in our church openly living in sin?
Why can't we do that?
Because that affects the way the lost world around us sees who God is.
And they think, well, if they're just living in sin, I can just live in sin.
But that's not what God's people are called to.
So the church has the responsibility to get the leaven out, to get the leaven out.
And now that being said, there's a lot of leaven in my life and leaven in your life that we don't publicly see, but you know about it.
You know about it in your own life.
And he, to us today, we have to keep the feast of unleavened bread.
We've got to get it out.
We cannot continue in sin.
Well, well, that's great.
Thanks for telling me that.
Okay.
But what do I do?
How do I do it?
All right.
Let's keep reading.
He's going to tell us.
Here's what first, there's some things you got to know.
Some things you got to know.
Verse three, do you,
Not no, that all of us who have been baptized into Jesus Christ were baptized into his death.
Some of us this morning have to go back to our baptism.
All right, we got to go back to our baptism.
We were buried therefore with him by baptism into death in order that as Christ was raised from the dead by the glory of the Father, we too might walk in newness of life.
Christians, God has created pilgrims and we're not just nice people.
We should be nice people, but that's not just it.
We are new people.
We are new creations in Christ.
And we had to walk in that.
Now how?
Well, let's keep reading.
For if we had been united with him in death like this, we shall certainly be united with him in a resurrection like this.
We know that our old self was crucified with him in order the body of sin might be brought to nothing.
that we would no longer be enslaved to sin.
Here's what you gotta know as a Christian.
You are united with Christ.
When Christ died, you died.
When you put your faith in Christ, you became a new creation, you're not the same person anymore.
You have a new life.
This morning, here's what needs to happen.
Some of us need to have a funeral service this morning for our sin.
You gotta know some things.
When Christ died, you died.
When he was buried, you were buried.
And the old master wants to come around.
The old master wants the master of sin wants to come and say, hey, hey, I'm coming back again.
Let's get back in this.
You have to say, you have to know, no, Christ died and I died.
Not only did he die, he was buried.
That old life of mine was buried.
Now, of the seven days, think about it, when Israel come out of Egypt and they come on the, they cross the Red Sea, when they look back in the Red Sea, what did they see?
They saw slave masters bobbing up and down.
Are you with me?
How crazy would it be to go over to their slave master and be like, Hey, you okay buddy?
You need help?
No, they needed to take it by their slave masters by the throat and hold them under.
You see, now the only way you can do that this morning is to understand, to hold your sin under, to destroy your sin.
You got to understand.
Yeah.
Who you once were, because not only that, not only you, not who you once are, you're not your own.
You're not your own.
You are his.
Okay.
That's how you brand.
That's how you live free.
You got to, you got to have funeral for your sin and not just once, not just once.
You had to pick your cross up once on the Lord's day every week.
No, pick up your cross when daily.
You go back to that funeral service every day.
My buddy Christmas president, I thought it was great for his grandmother who's in her nineties had another friend of mine who create, who takes VHS tapes and puts them into a USB.
And his grandmother had hundreds of VHS tapes.
I mean, a bunch of them.
And so he got all these and got our other friend to convert them to in USB.
And my buddy who converted them, he got to say, and he goes, you know, I was watching through some of these videos and your grandmother's got like funerals on here.
Who tapes funerals?
I don't know.
She likes to watch funerals.
What I'm saying this morning is you need to go back to the funeral.
Your baptism was a funeral service for your sin.
You told the world you died with Christ and you rose again.
That water was a watery tomb, all right?
And every day you need to go back and visit that.
You need to go back and visit Christ on the cross and his burial and his resurrection that you're identified with him.
And you need to start there.
He loved me.
I am his.
He saved me.
And now I'm a new person, right?
We have to go there.
Now we have to go there.
Now in verse 12, verse 11, so you also must consider ourself dead to sin and alive to God in Jesus Christ.
Consider that word means in old King James, reckon.
That's another legal banking term.
You need to reckon.
You say, I don't feel like a new person.
I don't feel like a Christian.
I'm struggling with this or that.
I don't have self.
I don't feel like it.
It don't matter about how you feel.
Feelings are the very shallowest part of your and my nature.
Friends, we have to live on fact based on fact.
And if you're a Christian, here's the fact this morning, the ransom has been paid for your life.
And it was Christ on the cross.
It is paid.
And legally, you are not your own.
And you got to count it.
All right?
We were watching a show, the Hoarders, okay?
TLC.
You know, if it wasn't for my wife, that would be me.
You can just ask other people who know me.
All right?
And so I like to see what I would be.
It's not good for man to be alone.
And so I like to see what I would be if I was by myself.
So I watched the show Hoarders and poor lady had hoarded all of this material things.
I mean her house is filled with it because a boyfriend she had had abused her and they bought all this stuff together and blah blah blah.
She had to get the law.
It had to get the law out there, the law to say this is not your house.
The boyfriend's got to go.
You don't, you got to go.
Friend, that's what you got to do with your sin.
Okay?
Hey, look, this is not your, my life is not yours.
It is God's.
He has redeemed it and I am His.
You just got to reckon it.
Whether you feel it or not, you got to reckon it down.
Right?
You got to put it in legally.
You are His.
Look at verse 18.
Having been set free from sin have become slaves of righteousness.
Frank, you will be a slave this morning.
You will either be a slave to unrighteousness or you will be a slave to righteous.
There is no middle ground.
You will either serve unrighteousness or you will serve right.
You will either serve the Lord or you will serve yourself and sin and Satan.
There's just no two ways about it.
You will be a slave to one or the other.
The question is who slave are you going to be?
Paul says, I am a slave to Christ Jesus.
If you're going to break the chains of sin in your life, they've got to be replaced with the chains of love for him that redeemed you.
How do you, it all has to do with how you pick your cross up.
How did Christ go to the cross?
Bible says, because of the joy that was set before him, he endured the cross.
You pick up your cross and you die to yourself daily because of the love you have for him because he loved you first.
Are you living that kind of Christian life?
Can you live the pilgrim life?
You can if you understand redemption and ownership and lordship.
If not, you have no hope.
Let's go to the Lord and prayer.
Father, help us to put this deep in our hearts, deep in our minds, deep in our lives.
When we leave this place,
that we've been bought with a price that we are not our own.
Oh, Father, help us be a people.
When people see us, they don't just see our good works, but they see our good works and we glorify our Father in heaven because you have loved us and you have redeemed us by the precious blood of the Lamb.
Help us understand this in Christ's name.
Amen.
If you'll stand with me, we're going to sing today in our hymnals in the time of prayer and reflection.
number sixty eight.
If you open your handles to number sixty eight.
Thank you for listening to this sermon from Harvest Baptist Church.
For more information about the church, please visit our website, HarvestBC.Church.
If you would like to contact us, please email us at contact.harvestbc.gmail.com or you can call us at 706-780-2211.
If you are looking for a church home or visiting the North Georgia area, we would love for you to join us on a Sunday morning.
At 9.30 in the fellowship hall for breakfast and Sunday school,
and then at 11 a.m. for our Lord's Day worship service.
We hope that you have a great week.
God bless.